So here's the router show IP interface brief.
We don't have any IP addresses configured on the router. So I'll configure the router
with an IP address of 10.1.1.253/24 mask and no shut the interface.
So can the router ping the HSRP IP address in VLAN 1 and the answer is yes it can.
So what I'll do now is enable EIGRP in autonomous system 100 and I'll only enable
EIGRP
for network 10. So show IP EIGRP interfaces EIGRP is enabled on gigabit0/0/0.
So on core 1, I'm going to enable EIGRP as well.
So router EIGRP, we need to make sure that the autonomous system numbers are the same on this
side we enabled EIGRP in autonomous system 100
and here I'll enable it on all interfaces simply by doing that.
I'll also configure no-auto summary, and I'll do the same over here.
We don't want automatic summarization on EIGRP, on core 2
router EIGRP 100 network 10 0/0/0
no-auto summary.
Notice we've got a lot of neighbor relationships because we are running EIGRP on multiple interfaces
on VLAN 1 we have two peers. Show IP EIGRP neighbors notice we have multiple neighbor relationships
the VLAN numbers are not showing properly on packet tracer
but what we've got is we've got neighbor relationships to switch 1 or core 1 on multiple VLANs
and we've got a neighbor relationship to the ISR router.
On core 1 show IP EIGRP neighbor
we also have multiple neighbor relationships in core 2 and one relationship to the ISR.
We have VLAN 1 spanning this link all the way to the ISR, so hence core 1 can have a neighbor relationship
directly to the ISR.
So we've configured EIGRP in our network, can the PCs ping the ISR as an example, so can it ping
10.1.1.253?
Yes, it can.
If I configured a loopback on the ISR router, that should be advertised and become available in the
network.
So as an example, if I configured a loopback on the ISR of quadruple one and then I went into
EIGRP and I advertised that network through EIGRP.
Core 1 should learn about that route, so show IP route shows us that route in the routing table
and it was learnt via EIGRP.
Notice the D for EIGRP we can ping that route from core 1 so on a PC such as PC 1, we should be
able to ping the loopback of the ISR, which we can so EIGRP is successfully configured in
this network.
The next step is to configure the ISR router with DHCP on this interface and configure net and verify
that the PCs can ping cisco.com.
That means that they need to send a DNS request to the DNS server, which will resolve the IP address
and tell the PCs the IP address of Cisco.